---
title: The Idol of Politics
tags: politics, idols, elections
category: Monday Musings
excerpt: Our response reveals our heart
created: 2020-11-09
image: ./images/jose-luis-sanchez-pereyra-HGffRY4WiNU-unsplash.jpg
image_caption: Photo by Jose Luis Sanchez on Unsplash
author: ccoppenbarger
---

It's been almost a week since election day here in the U.S. and it seems we now know that we have a President-elect Joe Biden. One may agree or disagree with how the process played out, but it does appear that he is the clear winner. The reason for that is that many are skeptical about why so many mail-in ballots went to one candidate and not the other. As I've been looking over some of the data, I've realized that one candidate told his followers to not use mail-in ballots, which means that more mail-in ballots went to the other candidate. That should not be a surprise to anyone, I would think.

That said, let's look at the response to the loss by the current President. In short, he's acting like a poor loser. While there's very little evidence of widespread mail-in ballot fraud, he has repeatedly called that process into question, so that when he loses, he can claim fraud. As I see Christian's responses across social media, they are also buying into the election fraud myth, and have been for some time. President Trump has built much of his campaign on conspiracy theories. I will say that the way President Trump has been treated over the last 4 years has been terrible, but his response and his supporters' responses have not been kind either.

As I watched President-elect Joe Biden's speach and rally the other night. I saw people worshiping him and worshiping Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. Some might deny that, but it couldn't be anything less that idolizng and worship through their tears and their fawning over two humans. The press fawned over Harris very much making much of her skin color and gender. It was sad and should cause us to weep over the sad state that people put much trust in humans, and not much in God. The same can be said of President Trump's rallies. Idols made of flawed human beings.

I say all that to say that I'm seeing too much of an idol being made of politics from nearly all sides. I'm just as guilty of this myself, and so this is preaching to myself. I was reading in Jeremiah this morning the following:

>      14       Every man is stupid and without knowledge; 
>     every goldsmith is put to shame by his idols, 
>                 for his images are false, 
>     and there is no breath in them. 
>     15       They are worthless, a work of delusion; 
>      at the time of their punishment they shall perish. 
>     16       Not like these is he who is the portion of Jacob, 
>      for he is the one who formed all things, 
>              and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance; 
>      the LORD of hosts is his name. 
>
> The Holy Bible: English Standard Version. (2016). (Je 10:14–16). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.

While this passage is speaking of physical idols, there are other idols we fashion in our hearts and minds. The way I've seen many of Trump's supporters speak of him is as if he is a god to them. He can do no wrong. It is okay for him to lash out at his critics. It is okay for Christians to lash out at critics of the President. My response: If you are a Christian, none of that is okay. It's one thing to advocate for good policies, such as eliminating abortion, religious liberty in holding to Biblical beliefs such as heterosexual marriage, etc., but to demonize others, lash out at opposition, and justify it is not Christian. It has become an idol.

I'll admit that perhaps I've made an idol myself of being in the middle. I refuse to vote party lines simply for the reason that there are too many on both sides who like to talk a good talk, but never follow through. For that, I do confess and repent. I did not vote for President Trump in 2016, nor did I vote for him in this election based on the moral character issues. I've received a lot of flack for that from some well-meaning Christians and some that I question. Yes, we should vote policy issues, but at what cost? Is it right to put a person in the White House who has serious moral flaws and refuses to acknowledge those? Someone who continually lashes out critics and takes no responsibility for their own actions?

In conclusion, stop making an idol of worthless things. Stop demonizing those who disagree with you. The Bible calls use to be peacemakers(Matthew 5:9). Pray for those who persecute you. I'll leave you with the following passage of scripture as we welcome a new President on January 20, 2021:
> 9 Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good. 10 Love one another with
> brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. 11 Do not be slothful in zeal, be
> fervent in spirit, serve the Lord. 12 Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in
> prayer. 13 Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality.
> 14 Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them. 15 Rejoice with those who rejoice,
> weep with those who weep. 16 Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate
> with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. 17 Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought
> to do what is honorable in the sight of all. 18 If possible, so far as it depends on you, live
> peaceably with all. 19 Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it
> is written, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.” 20 To the contrary, “if your enemy
> is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap
> burning coals on his head.” 21 Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
>
> 13 Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except
> from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. 2 Therefore whoever resists the
> authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. 3 For
> rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in
> authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, 4 for he is God’s servant for
> your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the
> servant of God, an avenger who carries out God’s wrath on the wrongdoer. 5 Therefore one must be
> in subjection, not only to avoid God’s wrath but also for the sake of conscience. 6 For because
> of this you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very
> thing. 7 Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue
> is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed.
>
> The Holy Bible: English Standard Version. (2016). (Ro 12:9–13:7). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.
