---
title: The Sacrifice - Prologue
tags: serial, stories
category: Saturday Serial
excerpt: John 
created: 2020-10-24
image: ./images/patrick-fore-0gkw_9fy0eQ-unsplash.jpg
image_caption: Photo by Patrick Fore on Unsplash
author: ccoppenbarger
---

## The Sacrifice

### Prologue

"This is what it feels like to die", thought John. He knew that today might be the day, but he was still unprepared for what was to come. All the events over the past few weeks should have been a warning, and yet, here he was, about to be hung for doing the right thing. He stood looking over the crowd of onlookers, trying to get a glimpse of his companions, but to no avail. It seems as if everyone had abandoned him, John being accused of crimes he didn't commit.

The executioner, clad all in black, with a hood over his head, guided John to the rope hanging down, with the trap door underneath. A hood was placed over John's head and then the rope around his neck. The magistrate stepped forward and read the accusations against John: treason, attempted murder, thievery, and sedition. All of which may have been true, were the King the rightful heir to the throne. John knew otherwise.

Accusations read, the executioner put his hand on the rope for the trap door, John not being able to see anything more, due to the hood. The rope was pulled and John felt the rope around his neck tighten as the bottom disappeared from beneath his feet...

**This is the first of many Saturday installments featuring a fantasy serial of a Sacrifice for a people undeserving.**
